# Introduction 
The City of Los Angeles experienced a record breaking heatwave in the summer of 2022. This caused an increase in heat related illness, power shutoffs, and extended prolonged exposure to sweltering temperatures up to 115 degrees fahrenheit in some areas. After this event, questions were raised on how the most vulnerable communities will be able to combat climate change, specifically heat waves. Our group will first identify which areas within the City of Los Angeles are the most vulnerable based on racial, economic, and housing status variables. Then we will introduce heat projection data as an added variable to vulnerability. This is then followed by identifying what amenities (cooling centers, hospitals, and bus shelters) are available in these vulnerable communities to understand if they are capable of responding to intensifying heat events.
# Why it matters
Extreme heat events in the City of Los Angeles are becoming more frequent and intense. Climate scientists project temperatures across many neighborhoods in the City are expected to increase into the triple digits. Additionally, according to researchers, by the end of the century, under an RCP8.5 scenario, there will be 60–90 additional extreme heat days per year in the Los Angeles region [^1]. Heat is extremely dangerous, especially for vulnerable populations, such as the elderly, infants, incarcerated people, transit riders, low-income people, renters, and workers who may lack agency to change temperatures or have pre-existing medical conditions. According to an LA Times investigation on extreme heats’ toll on deaths, the state of California vastly undercounts extreme heat related deaths. The State claims 599 people died due to extreme heat from 2010 to 2019, this number, however, is inaccurate and the number is actually closer to 3,900 deaths [^2]. Extreme heat is a vulnerability that the City is not prepared for and the consequences are dire. As climate change impacts continue to worsen, more people will be hospitalized or die if mitigation and resilience efforts are not implemented.
[^1]: Sun, Fengpeng, Daniel B. Walton, and Alex Hall. "A Hybrid Dynamical–Statistical Downscaling Technique. Part II: End-of-Century Warming Projections Predict a New Climate State in the Los Angeles Region". Journal of Climate 28.12 (2015): 4618-4636. < https://doi.org/10.1175/JCLI-D-14-00197.1>. Web. 28 Jan. 2023.
[^2]:  Phillips, Anna. “Heat Waves Are Far Deadlier than We Think. How California Neglects This Climate Threat.” Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, https://www.latimes.com/projects/california-extreme-heat-deaths-show-climate-change-risks/. 
# Scope of Work 
The project team will be researching extreme heat impacts within vulnerable communities, in the City of Los Angeles, in order to better understand where there are gaps in heat mitigation resources. Climate change has hyper local impacts and different areas of the City will see varying degrees of extreme temperatures. For example, the San Fernando Valley will be seeing more extreme heat compared to the beaches. It is also important to understand the demographics of different neighborhoods to see where vulnerable populations reside in higher percentages. To understand the varying effects of heat, spatial data is required to visualize where these focalized areas are. We then add other spatial variables such as locations of cooling centers, distances from the nearest hospital, and the geographic locations of bus shelters to determine additional levels of vulnerability. This will help visualize what areas in the city are over resourced and inform where resources should be prioritized. 
# Data 
We will be using census data to learn where vulnerable populations may reside by census block. The vulnerability assessment variables will include age, race, home tenure, and income from the US Census. Additionally, we expect to use projections of increased temperatures within the City of Los Angeles which is displayed as thermal imaging [Healthy Places Index](https://heat.healthyplacesindex.org/). Currently, cooling centers, hospital locations, and bus shelters geolocations are provided through local GIS data from the City of Los Angeles public database [LA City GIS](https://geohub.lacity.org/). 
